This is most of the way there.
There's really like one nuance here, yeah.
>> I'm curious, so the fire event.click.
>> Yes.
>> Can you use a standard click event?
Could you get the DOM object and
do a .click on that?
>> That is effectively
what fire event is doing.
>> Okay,.
>> Right it is firing a click event,
right?
>> So, but can we do, I mean, could we do
the button element .click directly, or
is that not working in this context?
>> I don't think that one works,
but we can find out.
No.
>> Okay, so
it is something about the context.
>> Yep, but you did lead me to
a better question which is,
okay, maybe with click events, but
there are a whole bunch
of other events either a,
are very hard to simulate by doing this.
Or b, is not the way that a user
really uses the DOM, right?
For instance, we might choose to register
an event handler at onkeyup, right?
But a user does not just fire a keyup,
right?
A keyup event is when you
take your finger off the key.
I don't know, humor me for a moment.
What things would have to happen for
a user to lift their finger off the key?
>> Key down.
>> Key down, right?
[LAUGH] Yeah and
there's some amount of holding that's
happening at that point, right?
So generally speaking,
the whole reason we're doing this was
we want to simulate something
that somewhat resembles reality,
then this is, yeah, it's fine,
but it's not great.
And so
there is a library that is spiritually,
when I say spiritually,
I mean in the same NPM org related,
which is called user event, right?
And we have it here and
you do need to do a few things,
which is, before you use it,
you have to do,
I think that's just user, cool.
An user event seeks to create
heuristics that are more natural.
So you do not fire a keyup event but
you could theoretically say,
it would simulate the act of pressing
the M key down and taking your finger off.
Which is probably gonna
give you better and
more accurate simulations of
what is actually gonna happen.
Cuz again, testing is great,
awesome, wonderful, do it, yeah.
You know what's worse
than not having tests?
Having tests that are just inaccurate
enough to give you a false
sense of confidence that isn't true,
[LAUGH] right?
And so, yeah.
And one thing that you'll see is,
so we can do user., and
here's a bunch of the different options.
At one point somewhere in the notes,
I link,
I have a list of all
the things that you can do.
Now, importantly, I'm pretty sure
I opened up the type file and
just copied all the keys out,
but you can also see it in here.
I think kind of one of the interesting
things is, even for instance keyboard,
you have a string, it will simulate
the act of typing that string.
So, and on change, if you've done react,
you probably had an unchanged.
But theoretically,
no user triggers an on change event,
they type into the input field
one letter at a time, right?
And so this will simulate
a little bit more of that.
And you can see there's a whole bunch,
there's upload, yeah,
I have a list somewhere in the notes for
you as well.
And so we can do user and we can do,
this one click is alternatively the same.
And that, it's gonna leave that
IntelliSense as I'm building up to
something, I'm just gonna let
it sit there for a second.
Don't don't look at it,
don't look after the colon.
User, click and we'll click on the button,
which I should definitely
call an increment button.
And my test fails, great,
really glad I went to that whole spiel.
Everything's good.
Wait, right, careful listeners will see
that in the act of doing multiple things
beyond just finding one event that
triggers something in this whole
pressing a key down stuff along
those lines, that takes time,
which means we return a promise that will
settle when it is done doing the thing.
And we do need to await that,
in this case, a click,
sure, but a type or
something along those lines and
we can begin to have that in place.
The other thing is that this
should have gone into setup,
which is what I aspire to
run at the very beginning.
This will also extend it as well.
This is really what I wanted anyway.
Utilities is a place for
me to put helper methods,
I now know this because I'm
ready to put a helper method.
So let me go and wind that back
a little bit, we'll just change this.
As you've just learned, these file names
are completely arbitrary, which is nice.
But, to the theme that we had
with the GitHub Action before,
I don't like to repeat myself,
and you know what seems not fun?
Having to put this at
the beginning of every single
test where I need to
simulate a user event.
Because we can assume,
maybe assume is a strong word,
that if one was going to go ahead and
render, they are likely,
if they're not just querying the DOM,
at which point like,
we can argue that to match that snapshot
is better at that point, I still say no.
But, the fact that these things will
probably come together fairly often,
is that fair?
So maybe, if I know that I'm gonna use
this, maybe if I go through the act of
rendering, maybe you just also do this,
right?
And so let's give ourselves
an abstraction here, which is,
we're gonna pull in render
from testing library react.
In fact, let's actually we're
gonna pull in everything.
Yeah, we'll just do this for now.
Render, And
you have two choices how you do this, I'm
going to do it, I'll decide on the moment.
We'll do const,
call it render component for
a second, because yeah,
can't have the same name.
Which should take, if you look at render,
it actually takes two arguments,
which is borderline impossible to read,
but you squint closely.
The first argument is that element
like we saw with counter, and
the second one is some number of options,
right?
That one's pretty easy to type.
The other one,
render options with the generic of queue,
and I think it also then takes out
queries, I've looked at this before.
So here we'll say,
React.ReactElement, and the options.
What is options?
We'll deal with that in a second.
I don't wanna do this,
I'll do it for a heartbeat.
And all that we wanna do in this case
is when we say renderComponent with
a component and all of those options,
what I would like you to do is go ahead,
in fact, We'll call it ui.
We'll keep it the same
as what they call it.
Const result, we can refactor,
I'm live coding it.
Where we will, in fact,
render that ui with those options.
We will also do that userEvent,
no, go away, .setup
Same thing that we had
from that other file, and
then we will return everything
in result plus the user.
So now when I call renderComponent,
I will call render and
also call userEvent.setup at the same
time and I'll get both for free.
We'll refactor that in a second,
this is actually just a top level export.
I'll refactor in a second,
but we can go ahead and
call this one renderComponent.
If you're like no, no, no,
I don't wanna call renderComponent,
I wanna call it render, you have a few
options where you can handle this.
You can say as, Make
this one renderComponent
that you'll never use again.
And this one can be render, right?
Yeah, it's like they just can't be
called the same thing at the same time.
Now you will fight with
IntelliSense later over this, but
I am willing to have that fight and do it.
So we still gotta fix this.
There's a few more things that
we need to fix as well, but
let's go back into our test.
I do have the counter svelt there,
so you can see both.
All right, cool, so here we've got,
now what we can do is let's get rid
of this render for a heartbeat.
And we'll have render and
you can see my one from this
test utilities in this folder.
What you angry about?
So it gives the user the container,
the base of the here's all the things.
What you upset?
Why are you mad?
Expected two arguments and got one,
that technically makes sense,
that is the code that I wrote.
So we can fix that, because it doesn't
know that that one is optional.
So we could say, and now it works, right?
I can refactor this a bit.
No, don't say that.
Don't save any random
things I wrote in any file.
Okay, so we can refactor this
a little bit here as well,
which is this any will, one, opt me out
of any kind of sense of IntelliSense.
So a few options here,
which is I could do,
There isn't a type that I can just export
right now, as a moment that you all
are sitting in the room and
whoever's watching us as I record this,
there's no type that you can import for
that option is because it's dynamically.
So I could do, get me the parameters,
typeof.
So, zero base, so
this option should be whatever the second
argument to the render from
React testing library is.
I don't know what that is, but
that should be the same thing, right?
And that will do the trick.
The only things that I would do here to
make this a little bit easier, I did these
to show you everything that we get from
the results spread out in an object plus
the user, we could shorten this a little
bit, now that I've made my point.
Cool, all my tests pass.
So now I have a special version
of render that automatically
also sets up the user events and
gives me that user.
So let's go ahead and
just change this real quick.
And we'll go ahead, now I don't need this.
And we say const user, And
now I get both for free at the same time.
And life is good and there was much
rejoicing everywhere to be found.